---
title: Droonga 1.0.0 has been released!
layout: news-item
published: false
---

## About Droonga

Droonga is a scalable data processing engine, based on a stream oriented processing model.

### Droonga is a distributed fulltext search engine

Droonga provides high-power, scalable fulltext search feature including data-storage features.

Droonga can search information from a large database based on multiple partitions and multiple hardwares.
You don't have to think about the maximum limit of the size of storage, CPU resources, and so on.
If remaining capacity becomes tight, then you just have to add new nodes to your cluster.

See [overview](/overview/) for more details, and try the [tutorial](/tutorial/).

### Droonga is a distributed generic data processing engine

In many operations (searching, updating, grouping, and so on), Droonga processes various data by pipeline.
As the result, Droonga has large potential around its flexibility and extensibility.
Moreover, those features provide high availability for people who develop any data processing engine based on Droonga.
You can process complex operations by mixing operations, and you can add custom operations to Droonga via plugins written as Ruby-scripts.

To develop your custom plugins, see the [plugin development tutorial][tutorial-plugin].


## About this release

The current Droonga version is 1.0.0.
This is the first major release!!

The release has the following changes:

 * The format of the "catalog.json" is improved and stabilized.
   More readable, more understandable easily.
 * APIs to develop plugins around the handling phase are stabilized.
   Now you can develop plugins working with the data storage.
   See the [plugin development tutorial for the handling phase][tutorial-handler] for more details.
 * Declaration style of plugins is changed a little.
   Old:
   
   ~~~ruby
   module MyPlugin
     Plugin.registry.register("my-plugin", self)
     ...
   end
   ~~~
   
   New:
   
   ~~~ruby
   module MyPlugin
     extend Plugin
     register("my-plugin")
     ...
   end
   ~~~
   
   You have to migrate your plugins written for Droonga 0.9.9.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.0 has been released!
 * "catalog.json" becomes more readable.
 * Plugins can work with the data storage.
 * You have to migrate your plugin written for Droonga 0.9.9.
   You'll complete it with a tiny modification.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [search]: /reference/commands/search/
  [table_remove]: /reference/commands/
  [tutorial-plugin]: /tutorial/plugin-development/
  [tutorial-handler]: /tutorial/plugin-development/handler/
