---
title: Droonga 1.0.2 has been released!
layout: news-item
published: false
---

## About Droonga

Droonga is a scalable data processing engine, based on a stream oriented processing model. In many operations (searching, updating, grouping, and so on), Droonga processes various data by pipeline. As the result, Droonga has large potential around its flexibility and extensibility. Moreover, those features provide high availability for people who develop any data processing engine based on Droonga. You can process complex operations by mixing operations, and you can add custom operations to Droonga via plugins written as Ruby-scripts.

Are you interested in Droonga? See [overview](/overview/) for more details, and try the [tutorial](/tutorial/). You'll understand how Droonga works with these documentations.

## About this release

The current Droonga version is 1.0.2.

The most important topic on this release is that the core component aka Droonga Engine becomes fluentd-free.
As the result, the project (and gem package) `fluent-plugin-droonga` is renamed to `droonga-engine`.
Of course the compatibility of the protocol is still there.

And, now Droonga has better compatibility to Groonga.
Moreover there is a new [tutorial for Groonga users aiming to migrate from Groonga to Droonga][groonga-tutorial].
Droonga is still under development, but it already can work as a Groonga with the replication feature.
Feel free to try it on!

Details of improvements on this release are:

 * [Droonga-engine 1.0.2][droonga-engine] (renamed from "fluent-plugin-droonga")
   * Becomes fluentd-free.
   * Supports new `--daemon` and `--pid-file` options for the daemon mode.
   * More Groonga-compatible features are available:
     * `table_list` command
     * `column_list` command
     * `column_remove` command
     * `column_rename` command
     * `delete` command
     * `filter` option for `select` command
   * A useful command line tool `droonga-catalog-generate` is included.
     It helps you to write your custom `catalog.json`.
   * Parameters for the `search` command is validated more strictly.
   * The default port number is changed from 24224 (fluentd's one) to 10031.
 * [Express-droonga 1.0.2][express-droonga]
   * Works with the [Express 4.0](http://expressjs.com/).
   * Keeps the process alive even if it is disconnected from the Droonga Engine.
   * Groonga compatible `load` command with `POST` method is available.
     (Note: `load` command with `GET` method is not supported yet.)
 * [Droonga-http-server 1.0.4][droonga-http-server]
   * Works with the [Express 4.0](http://expressjs.com/).
   * Supports a new `--enable-trust-proxy` option to run the server behind a reverse proxy.
   * Supports a new `--plugins` option to choose plugins to be activated.
   * Supports new `--daemon` and `--pid-file` options for the daemon mode.

And, related projects are also released:

 * [Droonga-client-ruby 0.1.6][droonga-client-ruby]
   * Supports droonga's protocol.
 * [Drntest 1.1.4][drntest]
   * Supports more Groonga-compatible commands available at droonga-engine 1.0.2.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.2 has been released!
 * There is better compatibility with Groonga - it's the time to try Droonga, migrating from Groonga!
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [groonga-tutorial]: /tutorial/groonga/
  [droonga-engine]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-engine
  [express-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/express-droonga
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [droonga-client-ruby]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-client-ruby
  [drntest]: https://github.com/droonga/drntest
