---
title: Droonga 1.0.9 has been released!
layout: news-item
---

Thank you for your entry to our conference "Groonga Night 5th" at 2014-11-29!

Droonga 1.0.9 is an extra release.
On the session at the conference, we have some troubles.
Those issues have been fixed at this release!

## Improvements of Droonga 1.0.9

First, now `droonga-engine-join`, `droonga-engine-unjoin`, and `droonga-engine-absorb-data` are runnable on any node.
In old versions, those commands had some elusive preconditions, so they were inconvenience a little.

Second, unjoined nodes are correctly invisible from `droonga-http-server`s.
At the previous version, `droonga-http-server` unexpectedly kept connections to `droonga-engine` nodes even if they were already unjoined from the cluster.
Now `droonga-engine` nodes manage their relations by unique id for each Droonga cluster, and `droonga-http-server` can detect which engine node was unjoined by the cluster's id.

These fixes will let you more easy to try Droonga!

## Detailed list of improvements

 * [Droonga-engine 1.0.9][droonga-engine]
   * `droonga-engine-join`, `droonga-engine-unjoin`, and `droonga-engine-absorb-data` work on any host.
     Instead, you have to specify the host name or the IP address of the working host via the `--receiver-host` option.
   * Clusters are managed with their own unique id.
     In previous version, a node unjoined from the Droonga cluster is still a member of the Serf cluster, and there is no
     information that protocol adapter nodes detect which is actual member or not.
 * [Droonga-http-server 1.1.0][droonga-http-server] and [Express-droonga 1.0.8][express-droonga]
   * Connects to active engine nodes of the cluster of the associated engine node correctly.
     Previous version unexpectedly kept connections to already unjoined engine nodes.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.9 has been released!
 * Some inconvenience limitations of cluster management commands are solved.
 * `droonga-http-server` now works as you expected after cluster management operations.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [overview]: /overview/
  [tutorial]: /tutorial/groonga/
  [groonga]: http://groonga.org/
  [droonga-engine]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-engine
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [express-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/express-droonga

