---
title: Droonga 1.0.8 has been released!
layout: news-item
published: false
---

## What's Droonga?

Droonga is a distributed full text search engine, compatible to [Groonga][groonga].
A Droonga cluster works like an HTTP server compatible to [Groonga][groonga] with the replication feature.

Are you interested in Droonga: how it works and how useful?
Let's try the [tutorial][] for an introduction, and see the [overview][] to understand Droonga's design strategy more and more.

## Improvements in Droonga 1.0.8

This release Droonga 1.0.8 contains many improvements.
Major topics are here:

### Orchestration of front-end HTTP server nodes

A front-end HTTP server node based on `droonga-http-server` has become to a member of the Droonga cluster truly.

In old versions, a `droonga-http-server` node was strongly bound to a `droonga-engine` node.
So, if a `droonga-engine` node died, `droonga-http-server` nodes associated to the `droonga-engine` node also died.

But now, the limitation has been gone.
Even if one of `droonga-engine` node become unavailable, `droonga-http-server` nodes keep them working with active `droonga-engine` nodes automatically.
Moreover, a `droonga-http-server` node distributes requests from clients to multiple `droonga-engine` nodes.
In other words, now it works like a simple load balancer.

### Better compatibility to Groonga

Some minor incompatibilities have been corrected.

 * `select` command:
   * The `output_columns` option accepts whitespace-separated list of column names (compatible to Groonga's `command_version=1` form.)
   * `output_columns=*` works correctly for `TABLE_NO_KEY` tables.
 * `column_list` command:
   * A `_key` virtual column is correctly appear in the result, for tables with one of flags: `TABLE_HASH_KEY`, `TABLE_PAT_KEY`, and `TABLE_DAT_KEY`.
   * At an index column, its `source` is now compatible to Groonga's one.
 * `table_create` command:
   * The `key_type` parameter becomes required for `TABLE_HASH_KEY`, `TABLE_PAT_KEY`, and `TABLE_DAT_KEY` tables.
     You'll get an error response, if the parameter is not given.
     (Groonga unexpectedly accepts `table_create` requests without `key_type` parameter, but it is a known issue.)

### Detailed list of all improvements

 * [Droonga-engine ][droonga-engine] 1.0.8
   * Better compatibility to Groonga's `select`, `column_list`, and `table_create` commands.
     (See above)
   * The `daemon` option is now ignored in the static configuration file.
     Now, you always have to specify `--daemon` option for the `droonga-engine` command
     to start it as a daemon.
   * The `droonga-engine-configure` command now shows prompts for all options always.
 * [Droonga-http-server ][droonga-http-server] 1.0.9
   * A new `--host` option is available to restrict the listening IP address.
     The default value is `0.0.0.0` (meaning `listen all IP addresses`).
   * A new `--cache-ttl-in-seconds` option is available to set the time to live of cached responses, in seconds.
     The default value is `60` (meaning `1 minute`).
   * A new `--disable-trust-proxy` option is available to disable the feature
     even if it is activated by the static configuration file.
   * The `daemon` option is now ignored in the static configuration file.
     Now, you always have to specify `--daemon` option for the `droonga-http-server` command
     to start it as a daemon.
   * The `droonga-http-server-configure` command now shows prompts for all options always.
   * Responses for most commands are never cached.
     Now, only responses based on `search` or Groonga's `select` commands and the administration page are cached.
   * A new endopoint `/cache` is introduced to clear all response caches.
     To clear cached contents, send an HTTP `DELETE` request to the path.
   * Improvements from `express-droonga` itself.
     (See below)
 * [Express-droonga ][express-droonga] 1.0.7
   * Supports multiple Droonga Engine nodes as its backends.
     Now `express-droonga` can work like a load balancer.
   * The list of connecting Droonga Engine nodes can be automatically updated
     based on the actual list of active members in the cluster.
     This feature is activated by the `syncHostNames` option for the `application.droonga()` method.
 * [Drntest ][drntest] 1.1.7 (released at 2014-11-18)
   * Accept virtual column like `_key` as a part of Groonga's `column_list` command response.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.8 has been released!
 * Front-end HTTP server nodes are now orchestrated as nodes in the cluster.
   Droonga clusters now work more robustly.
 * It becomes more compatible to Groonga.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [overview]: /overview/
  [tutorial]: /tutorial/groonga/
  [groonga]: http://groonga.org/
  [droonga-engine]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-engine
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [express-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/express-droonga
  [drntest]: https://github.com/droonga/drntest
