---
title: Droonga 1.0.1 has been released!
layout: news-item
---

## About Droonga

Droonga is a scalable data processing engine, based on a stream oriented processing model. In many operations (searching, updating, grouping, and so on), Droonga processes various data by pipeline. As the result, Droonga has large potential around its flexibility and extensibility. Moreover, those features provide high availability for people who develop any data processing engine based on Droonga. You can process complex operations by mixing operations, and you can add custom operations to Droonga via plugins written as Ruby-scripts.

Are you interested in Droonga? See [overview](/overview/) for more details, and try the [tutorial](/tutorial/). You'll understand how Droonga works with these documentations.

## About this release

The current Droonga version is 1.0.1.

The release has the following improvements:

 * [Fluent-plugin-droonga 1.0.1][fluent-plugin-droonga]
   * More documents around plugin APIs are now available.
     See the [plugin development tutorial][] and the [plugin API reference][].
   * Some documented features of the `catalog.json` are actually implemented. For example:
     * A new `vectorOptions` option for a schema.
     * New options `fact`, `dimension`, `nWorkers` and so on.
     For more details, see [the reference of the `catalog.json`][catalog].
   * Connections to other Droonga Engine nodes are automatically re-established correctly.
   * Some improvements about the [`search` command][search]
     * The column name `_nsubrecs` is available as a source with `groupBy` and `sortBy`.
     * The element `elapsedTime` is now available for a value of `elements`.
     * A new parameter `adjusters` is introduced. (Not documented yet, so see also [Groonga's document](http://groonga.org/docs/reference/commands/select.html#select-adjuster))
     * `groupBy` becomes faster.
   * And some small bugfixes.
 * [Express-droonga 1.0.1][express-droonga]
   * The bundled HTTP server application is removed.
     Instead, use another project [droonga-http-server][].
   * Parallel connections from the Droonga Engine are established correctly.
   * A middleware for response caches is available now.
     You can see the statistics via `/cache/statistics`.
   * Query parameters `attributes`, `group_by`, and `adjusters` are available for a REST `search` command (via `/tables/:tableName`).
 * [Droonga-http-server 1.0.3][droonga-http-server]
   * This is an npm package, a frontend for the express-droonga.
     You don't have to write your `application.js` and `package.json` for general purpose - you just have to install this package and run the `droonga-http-server` command with options, to start an HTTP protocol adapter on your machine.
     See also the [basic tutorial](/tutorial/basic/) and the [reference manual][http-server].

And, related projects are also released:

 * [Droonga-client-ruby 0.1.5][droonga-client-ruby]
   * A new command `droonga-send` is available just for sending requests and ignoring responses.
   * Output results correctly event if there are multiple threads.
 * [Drntest 1.1.3][drntest]
   * Supported merging custom `catalog.json` for each test.
   * Saved actual results on "not checked" cases.
   * Supported a new `omit` directive.
   * Supported a new `require-catalog-version` directive.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.1 has been released!
 * More documents around plugin APIs are available.
 * More features of `catalog.json` are actually implemented.
 * A new npm package `droonga-http-server` is available as an HTTP protocol adapter frontend.
   You don't have to write your `application.js` and `package.json` anymore.
 * A new `droonga-send` command is added to droonga-client-ruby.
 * Drntest now supports custom `catalog.json` for each test, and there are more improvements.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [search]: /reference/commands/search/
  [basic tutorial]: /tutorial/basic/
  [plugin development tutorial]: /tutorial/plugin-development/
  [plugin API reference]: /reference/plugin/
  [catalog]: /reference/catalog/
  [http-server]: /reference/http-server/
  [fluent-plugin-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/fluent-plugin-droonga
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [express-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/express-droonga
  [droonga-client-ruby]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-client-ruby
  [drntest]: https://github.com/droonga/drntest
