---
title: Droonga 1.0.6 has been released!
layout: news-item
published: false
---

Sorry, long time no see.
We sadly skipped a release on the last month, however, we've been back with Droonga 1.0.6 and a great improvement!

## What's Droonga?

Droonga is a distributed full text search engine, compatible to [Groonga][groonga].
A Droonga cluster works like an HTTP server compatible to [Groonga][groonga] with the replication feature.

## Droonga became more easy-to-install!

The most important topic on this release Droonga 1.0.6 is the *very easy installation*.
Droonga's main components, `droonga-engine` and `droonga-http-server` are now installable via script for each, so you just run scripts as the root, just like:

~~~
# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/droonga/droonga-engine/master/install.sh | \
    bash
# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/droonga/droonga-http-server/master/install.sh | \
    bash
~~~

Then `droonga-engine` and `droonga-http-server` are automatically registered as system services managed via the `service` command.
You just have to run simple commands to start/stop services, like:

~~~
# service droonga-engine start
# service droonga-http-server start
~~~

Moreover, utility commands to manage nodes in the cluster (like `droonga-engine-join` and `droonga-engine-unjoin`) also became more easy-to-use.
For more details, see [the updated "getting started" tutorial](/tutorial/1.0.6/groonga) and others.

On the other hand, there is a sad news:
Droonga's installation scripts now work only for Debian, Ubuntu, and CentOS 7.
Other environments (for example CentOS 6.5, OS X, BSD... and more) are not supported yet.
So, if you have knowledges how to install required commands `gem`, `npm` (and `git`) and how to register custom services, please improve the installation script and send pull requests us!

## For developers

The installation script works for not only the latest release, but the latest revision of the master branch also.
You just have to give an extra environment variable `VERSION`, like:

~~~
# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/droonga/droonga-engine/master/install.sh | \
    VERSION=master bash
# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/droonga/droonga-http-server/master/install.sh | \
    VERSION=master bash
~~~

Then the script tries to install services based on the master.
It will help you to try new fixes before the next release.

And, there is a [new tutorial to prepare multiple virtual machines on your own PC](/tutorial/1.0.6/virtual-machines-for-experiments/).
It will help you to try Droonga casually.

## Detailed list of improvements

 * [Droonga-engine 1.0.6][droonga-engine]
   * The installation script is now available.
     It automatically installs required softwares and configure the `droonga-engine` as a system service.
     Currently it works only for Debian, Ubuntu, and CentOS 7.
   * The service works as a process belonging to a user `droonga-engine` who is specific for the service.
     The configuration directory for the service is placed under the home directory of the user.
   * A static configuration file to define default parameters (`host` and so on) is now available.
     It must be placed into the directory same to `catalog.json`.
     You don't have to run `droonga-engine` command with many options, anymore.
   * `droonga-engine-join` now automatically fetches `catalog.json` from the specified source replica node.
     Now you don't have to copy `catalog.json` from another node before you run `droonga-engine-join` anymore.
   * A new `catalog` plugin is introduced as one of default plugins, to fetch `catalog.json` from existing cluster.
     The list of plugins in your `catalog.json` must include it.
   * A new command line utility `droonga-engine-configure` is available.
     It generates the static configuration file, the `catalog.json` for the service.
     Moreover, it clears old stored data to make the node empty.
   * Some options for utility commands become optional.
     Important parameters are automatically detected.
   * Restarts server processes more gracefully.
 * [Droonga-http-server 1.0.7][droonga-http-server]
   * The installation script is now available.
     It automatically installs required softwares and configure the `droonga-http-server` as a system service.
     Currently it works only for Debian, Ubuntu, and CentOS 7.
   * The service works as a process belonging to a user `droonga-http-server` who is specific for the service.
     The configuration directory for the service is placed under the home directory of the user.
   * A static configuration file to define default parameters (`port` and so on) is now available.
     It must be placed into the configuration directory specified by the environment variable `DROONGA_BASE_DIR`.
     You don't have to run `droonga-http-server` command with many options, anymore.
   * A new command line utility `droonga-http-server-configure` is available.
     It generates the static configuration file for the service.
   * Cached responses are now returned correctly.
 * [Express-droonga 1.0.5][express-droonga]
   * Return cached responses correctly.
 * [Drntest 1.1.6][drntest]
   * Sort dump responses for stable test result.
   * Use `--ready-notify-fd` option to wait droonga-engine is ready.
 * [Grn2drn 1.0.4][grn2drn]
   * Create output directory automatically.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.6 has been released!
 * Droonga became more easy-to-use with simple installation method.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [overview]: /overview/
  [tutorial]: /tutorial/groonga/
  [groonga]: http://groonga.org/
  [droonga-engine]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-engine
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [express-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/express-droonga
  [drntest]: https://github.com/droonga/drntest
  [grn2drn]: https://github.com/droonga/grn2drn
