---
title: Droonga 1.0.3 has been released!
layout: news-item
---

## About Droonga

Droonga is a distributed full text search engine, compatible to [Groonga][groonga].

It is designed as a scalable data processing engine, based on a stream oriented processing model.
In many operations (searching, updating, grouping, and so on), Droonga processes various data by pipeline.
As the result, Droonga has large potential around its flexibility and extensibility.
Moreover, those features provide high availability for people who develop any data processing engine based on Droonga.
You can process complex operations by mixing operations, and you can add custom operations to Droonga via plugins written as Ruby-scripts.

Are you interested in Droonga? See [overview][] for more details, and try the [tutorial][].
You'll understand how Droonga works with these documentations.

## About this release

The current Droonga version is 1.0.3.

The most important topic on this release is that there are many improvements to use a Droonga cluster as a stable service.
Now Droonga nodes observe each other and keep the cluster working even if one of replicas is dead.
And you can add new replicas, remove existing replicas, and replace replicas with new one, without stopping of the cluster (only for "read-only" requests).
For more details, see the [dump-restore tutorial](/tutorial/1.0.3/dump-restore) and [another tutorial to add replica](/tutorial/1.0.3/add-replica).

The release has the following improvements:

 * [Droonga-engine 1.0.3][droonga-engine]
   * Alive monitoring (based on [Serf][serf]) lands.
     Now, nodes in a cluster observe each other, and the cluster keeps working, even if one of replicas is dead.
   * New commands to dump whole contents of an existing cluster are available.
     They are used by [drndump][] internally.
   * The command line tool `droonga-catalog-generate` is renamed to `droonga-engine-catalog-generate`.
   * Use `Default` as the name of the default dataset for a `catalog.json`, generated by `droonga-catalog-generate` .
   * The path of the configuration directory is now specified via an environment variable `DROONGA_BASE_DIR`.
   * Fix incompatibilities of the `select` Groonga command.
     * The default value of the `drilldown_output_columns` option becomes same to Groonga's one.
     * Column values of `Time` type clumns are returned as float numbers correctly.
     * The message structure of results becomes same to Groonga.
       In previous version, records are wrongly wrapped in an array.
   * Improve features of the `select` command..
     * The request parameter `"attributes"` for `"elements"` in `"output"` is now available.
     * The special value `"*"` for `"attributes"` in `"output"` is now available, to export all columns.
   * Server process does shutdown/restart gracefully.
   * Restart itself automatically when the `catalog.json` is updated.
 * [Express-droonga 1.0.3][express-droonga]
   * Groonga compatible `load` command with `GET` method is available.
   * Query parameter `group_by[(column name)][attributes]` for the REST `search` command now accepts simple comma-separeted string value.
 * [Droonga-http-server 1.0.5][droonga-http-server]
   * Use `Default` as the name of the default dataset.
     It is same to Droonga Engine's one.
   * Use `10041` as the default port number.
     It is same to Groonga HTTP server's one.

And, related projects are also released:

 * [Drndump 1.0.0][drndump]: *It's a new face!*
   * Initial release.
 * [Droonga-client-ruby 0.1.7][droonga-client-ruby]
   * Updated the default port number, same to `droonga-engine`'s one.
 * [Drntest 1.1.5][drntest]
   * Add `--timeout` option to work on slow environment such as Travis CI.
   * Support tmpfs at `/dev/shm`.
   * Use the environment variable `DROONGA_BASE_DIR`.
 * [Droonga-message-pack-packer-ruby 1.0.1][droonga-message-pack-packer-ruby]
   * Support packing of `Groonga::WGS84GeoPoint` and `Groonga::TokyoGeoPoint` values.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.3 has been released!
 * You can add new replicas, remove existing replicas, and replace replicas with new one, without stopping of the Droonga cluster, for read-only requests.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [overview]: /overview/
  [tutorial]: /tutorial/groonga/
  [groonga]: http://groonga.org/
  [serf]: http://serfdom.io/
  [droonga-engine]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-engine
  [express-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/express-droonga
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [droonga-client-ruby]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-client-ruby
  [drntest]: https://github.com/droonga/drntest
  [droonga-message-pack-packer-ruby]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-message-pack-packer-ruby
