---
title: Droonga 1.0.7 has been released!
layout: news-item
---

## What's Droonga?

Droonga is a distributed full text search engine, compatible to [Groonga][groonga].
A Droonga cluster works like an HTTP server compatible to [Groonga][groonga] with the replication feature.

Are you interested in Droonga: how it works and how useful?
Let's try the [tutorial][] for an introduction, and see the [overview][] to understand Droonga's design strategy more and more.

## A fatal issue of service scripts is fixed!

*Droonga 1.0.7 is an urgent release*.
Service scripts introduced at Droonga 1.0.6 had a fatal issue - installed `droonga-engine` and `droonga-http-server` services cannot be started after the computer is rebooted.
This problem has been fixed on 1.0.7.

Because service scripts are updated, you have to re-install `droonga-engine` and `droonga-http-server` by installation scripts like:

~~~
# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/droonga/droonga-engine/master/install.sh | \
    bash
# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/droonga/droonga-http-server/master/install.sh | \
    bash
~~~

Other major topics are:

 * There is an improvement about compatibility to Groonga:
   `droonga-engine` 1.0.7 now supports `query_flags` of Groonga's `select` command, except `ALLOW_UPDATE`.
   Droonga can process queries from your application, even if your application uses non-default `query_flags`.
 * Now you can specify the log level of `droonga-http-server`'s system log.
   To set log leve, run the `droonga-http-server-configure` command as root and reconfigure your service.
 * [A new tutorial for benchmarking of Droonga and Groonga](/tutorial/benchmark/) is now available.
   It describes how to measure (and compare) performance of Groonga and Droonga.

## Detailed list of improvements

 * [Droonga-engine 1.0.7][droonga-engine]
   * Better compatibility to Groonga: `select` command now supports `query_flags` option.
     Note: `ALLOW_UPDATE` is ignored even if you specify, because it is not implemented in Droonga yet.
   * `saerch` command has some improvements.
     * The value `false` for `allowPragma` and `allowColumn` options in query syntax search conditions is correctly applied.
       In old versions, they options are always `true` even if you intentionally specified `false` for them.
     * `allowLeadingNot` option is available in query syntax search conditions.
       It is `false` by default.
   * Works correctly as a service even if you restarted the computer itself.
   * `droonga-engine-configure` now asks the log level.
 * [Droonga-http-server 1.0.8][droonga-http-server]
   * Works correctly as a service even if you restarted the computer itself.
   * Log level of the system log is now customizable.
     You just have to put a line like `system_log_level: debug` into the `droonga-http-server.yaml`.
     And, `droonga-http-server-configure` also asks the log level.
 * [Express-droonga 1.0.6][express-droonga]
   * Debug logs are now reported via given logger.
 * [Drnbench 1.0.3][drnbench]
   * `drnbench-request-response`
     * Accept multiple hosts as a comma separated list via the `--default-hosts` option.
       You can simulate load balancing for multiple endpoints easily.
     * Accept plain text file of a list of paths as the patterns file.
   * `drnbench-extract-searchterms`
     * New `--escape` option is introduced to escape URI-incompatible characters.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.7 has been released!
 * A fatal issue in service scripts is fixed.
 * A new tutorial for benchmarking is available.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [overview]: /overview/
  [tutorial]: /tutorial/groonga/
  [groonga]: http://groonga.org/
  [droonga-engine]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-engine
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [express-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/express-droonga
  [drnbench]: https://github.com/droonga/drnbench
  [drntest]: https://github.com/droonga/drntest
  [grn2drn]: https://github.com/droonga/grn2drn
