---
title: Droonga 1.0.5 has been released!
layout: news-item
published: false
---

## About Droonga

Droonga is a distributed full text search engine, compatible to [Groonga][groonga].

It is designed as a scalable data processing engine, based on a stream oriented processing model.
In many operations (searching, updating, grouping, and so on), Droonga processes various data by pipeline.
As the result, Droonga has large potential around its flexibility and extensibility.
Moreover, those features provide high availability for people who develop any data processing engine based on Droonga.
You can process complex operations by mixing operations, and you can add custom operations to Droonga via plugins written as Ruby-scripts.

Are you interested in Droonga? See [overview][] for more details, and try the [tutorial][].
You'll understand how Droonga works with these documentations.

## About this release

The current Droonga version is 1.0.5.

On this version, some stability issues are fixed.
Detailed list of improvements are:

 * [Droonga-engine][droonga-engine] 1.0.5
   * Restarts server processes more gracefully.
   * Works with search results with vector reference column values correctly.
   * Messages forwarded to other nodes are always buffered for now.
   * Works again for the case: `nWorkers` == `0`
   * droonga-engine-join: Works correctly and safely for databases with much records.
 * [Droonga-http-server][droonga-http-server] 1.0.6
   * Provides Groonga's administration page as the document root (`/`) experimentally.
   * Supports a new `--environment` option to override the `NODE_ENV` environment variable.

And, related projects are also released:

 * [Droonga-client-ruby][droonga-client-ruby] 0.1.9
   * droonga-send: Accept default protocol, port, and tag. Now you can omit them for the `--server` option.
 * [Drnbench][drnbench] 1.0.1
   * Report throughput more correctly.
   * Report percentages of returned HTTP statuses correctly.
   * Report max elapsed time correctly.
   * Add ability to report slow requests.
   * Accept pattern group specific parameters.


## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.0.5 has been released!
 * On this version, some stability issues are fixed.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [overview]: /overview/
  [tutorial]: /tutorial/groonga/
  [groonga]: http://groonga.org/
  [droonga-engine]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-engine
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [droonga-client-ruby]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-client-ruby
  [drnbench]: https://github.com/droonga/drnbench
