---
title: Droonga 1.1.0 has been released!
layout: news-item
published: false
---

## What's Droonga?

Droonga is a distributed full text search engine, compatible to [Groonga][groonga].
A Droonga cluster works like an HTTP server compatible to [Groonga][groonga] with the replication feature.

Are you interested in Droonga: how it works and how useful?
Let's try the [tutorial][] for an introduction, and see the [overview][] to understand Droonga's design strategy more and more.

## (summary of this release)

The most important topic on this release Droonga 1.1.0 is the *(something)*.

(TBD)

## Detailed list of improvements

 * [Droonga-engine 1.1.0][droonga-engine]
   * General:
     * Graceful stopping/restarting works correctly with continual inpouring messages.
     * A new parameter `random` is introduced to single step definitions.
       If you set it to `true`, messages for the handler will be delivered to just single volume (one of replicas and slices).
       It is useful for commands which has to be executed only once in a cluster, like `system.status`.
     * `add` command now accepts requests with automatically-convertible mismatched type keys.
       For example, a string key `"1"` is available for a table with the key type `UInt32`.
     * `dump` command: the value of a column referring any record of another table are correctly exported as its key string, instead of object value (it's invalid value for a message of the `add` command).
       As the result, now tables with reference columns are correctly copied between multiple clusters.
     * `dump` command: records in a table which has only one column `_key` are exported correctly.
     * `dump` command: forwarded messages are now have their own `date` field.
     * `Collectors::RecursiveSum` is introduced.
     * `system.status` command: now the reporter node and its internal name is reported as a part of response body.
     * `system.statistics.object.count` command is now available. It is used by command line utilities internally.
     * `system.absorb-data` command is now available. It is used by command line utilities internally.
   * Message format:
     * `targetRole` field is introduced to the envelope.
       Now you can specify the role of the engine node which can process the messsage.
       If mismatched role node receives the message, it will be bounced to suitable node automatically if possible.
     * `timeout` field is introduced to the envelope.
       Now you can specify time to expire the request, in seconds.
   * Command line utilities:
     * `droonga-engine-join` and `droonga-engine-absorb-data` commands work more surely.
     * A new option `--verbose` is introduced to monitor internal Serf operations, for `droonga-engine-join` and `droonga-engine-absorb-data`.
     * A new command line utility `droonga-engine-set-role` is available (mainly for debugging).
   * Compatibility with Groonga:
     * Better compatibility to Groonga's `delete` command:
       * Works correctly for tables with integer key types.
         [The report by funa1g](http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2014-December/002995.html) inspired this improvement. Thanks!
       * Accepts requests with automatically-convertible mismatched type keys.
         For example, a numeric key `1` is available for a table with the key type `ShortText`.
 * [Droonga-http-server 1.1.2][droonga-http-server]
   * Bump required version of `express-droonga`.
 * [Express-droonga 1.0.9][express-droonga]
   * Updated for the latest Droonga Engine 1.1.0.
   * Supports uber-cache 2.0.0.
   * New endpoints are introduced to inspect connections to Droonga Engine nodes.
     - `/engines` returns the list of currently conencted Droonga Engine nodes.
     - `/connections` returns detailed status of internal connections to Droonga Engine nodes.
   * Always reconnects to Droonga Engine nodes when there is any change around the Droonga cluster.
 * [Drndump 1.0.1][drndump]
   * Becomes modulable. You can use internal libraries for other products.
   * Supports new `@subscribe-until` directive, for subscription type commands like `dump`.
     You can unsubscribe the next request following to the directive automatically with given timeout, like:
     `#@subscribe-until 10s`
 * [Drntest 1.2.0][drntest]
   * Improvements
     * Supported new directives to activate/diactivate completion and validation of messages.
       * `#@enable_completion` and `#@disable_completion` controls completion of request messages.
         Required fields of request messages are automatically completed by default.
       * `#@enable_validation` and `#@disable_validation` controls validation of request messages.
         Messages are validated by default.
     * A `NO RESPONSE` result is now returned immediately, for a stalled engine process.
     * Invalid format responses for Groonga commands are now ignored.
 * [Droonga-client-ruby 0.2.1][droonga-client-ruby]
   * Required fields of input messages are automatically completed by default.
   * Input messages are automatically validated by default.
   * Timeout option for subscription is available.
     You can unsubscribe subscription automatically with specified timeout, like:
     `client.subscribe(request, :subscription_timeout => 10)`
   * New utility commands are available as shorthand.
     * `droonga-system-status`: sends `system.status` request to the cluster.
     * `droonga-groonga`: works like the `groonga` command.
   * droonga-send, droonga-request:
     * A new option `--[no-]completion` is introduced.
       You should specify `--no-completion` to send incomplete messages intentionally.
     * A new option `--[no-]validation` is introduced.
       You should specify `--no-validation` to send invalid messages intentionally.
     * A new option `--default-dataset` is introduced.
       It is used for sending messages if they have no `dataset` field.
     * The "date" field is filled with the format same to droonga-engine's internal one
       like "2015-04-08T06:16:20.571303Z".

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 1.1.0 has been released!
 * (TBD: TODO summarize this release)
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [overview]: /overview/
  [tutorial]: /tutorial/groonga/
  [groonga]: http://groonga.org/
  [droonga-engine]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-engine
  [droonga-http-server]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-http-server
  [express-droonga]: https://github.com/droonga/express-droonga
  [drndump]: https://github.com/droonga/drndump
  [drntest]: https://github.com/droonga/drntest
  [droonga-client-ruby]: https://github.com/droonga/droonga-client-ruby
