---
title: Droonga 0.8.0 has been released!
layout: news_item
published: false
---

This is the first stable release of Droonga!

## About Droonga

Droonga is a scalable data processing engine. Droonga uses stream oriented processing model. Droonga processes data by pipeline. Many operations such as search, update, group are done in pipeline. The processing model provides flexibility and extensibility. Droonga can also process complex operations by mixing operations. Users can add custom operations to Droonga as Ruby plugins.

Are you interested in Droonga? See [overview](/overview/). It describes more details. Then try [tutorial](/tutorial/). You will understand how Droonga works with these documentations.

## About this release

The current Droonga version is 0.8.0. This is the first stable release.

The release comes with the following updates:

### Improvements

* [fluent-plugin-droonga] Merge column value of records which have same key
* [fluent-plugin-droonga] Better support of the `groupBy` option for the `search` command, with multiple partitions
* [fluent-plugin-droonga] Use UNIX domain socket to communicate with workers instead of queues implemented as Groonga's special tables. This prevents queue destruction problem after fluent-plugin-droonga crashed and improve the portability. It also reduces the time required for graceful shutdown.
* [fluent-plugin-droonga] Fix duplicated notification problem of watch in case of multiple-attributes are matched (experimental feature)
* [fluent-plugin-droonga] Make watcher sweepable (experimental feature)
* [droonga.org] Introduce i18n mechanism
* [droonga.org] Improve documentations by writing and translating documents
* [drntest] Suppress parse error for something other than JSON is returned from droonga
* [drntest] Rename `--base` option to `--basepath`

### Fixes

* [fluent-plugin-droonga] Fix problem with limit/offset calculation


## Are you interested?

If you are interested in Droonga, try Droonga! If you have questions, please contact us on [GitHub issues](https://github.com/droonga/fluent-plugin-droonga/issues/). Or use mailing list [in English (groonga-talk)](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/groonga-talk) or [in Japanese (groonga-dev)](http://lists.sourceforge.jp/mailman/listinfo/groonga-dev). We will help you.

Although the current Droonga provides basic core features, many other features aren't implemented yet. Error handling are also not perfect yet.
Droonga project continues to develop Droonga actively and release a new version every month.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 0.8.0 has been released!
 * Droonga 0.8.0 is the first stable release.
 * Try Droonga if you interested in.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer!
