---
title: Droonga 0.9.9 has been released!
layout: news-item
published: false
---

## About Droonga

Droonga is a scalable data processing engine, based on a stream oriented processing model. In many operations (searching, updating, grouping, and so on), Droonga processes various data by pipeline. As the result, Droonga has large potential around its flexibility and extensibility. Moreover, those features provide high availability for people who develop any data processing engine based on Droonga. You can process complex operations by mixing operations, and you can add custom operations to Droonga via plugins written as Ruby-scripts.

Are you interested in Droonga? See [overview](/overview/) for more details, and try the [tutorial](/tutorial/). You'll understand how Droonga works with these documentations.

## About this release

The current Droonga version is 0.9.9.

The release has the following improvements:

 * Plugin APIs around input and output adapters are stabilized.
   * Now you can develop any Droonga plugin which translates request and response messages, between the Droonga Engine and the client including the Protocol Adapter. See the [plugin development tutorial](/tutorial/plugin-development/) for more details.
   * Other type plugins will become developable in near future, so please wait for the next release...

## Why we ship Droonga 0.9.9 before 1.0.0?

On the [previous release](/news/2014/01/29/release), we announced that we'll release the version 1.0.0 today. However, now the version 0.9.9 is released. Why not 1.0.0? There are two reasons mainly.

First, plugin APIs were not matured yet. While we were brushing up internal operations of Droonga, we realized that it is hard to develop plugins, because current implementations were built on disorganized codes. Moreover, if people develop any plugin based on the current bad APIs and publish them, then they will become obsolete in very near future, because we define new plugin APIs which completely incompatible with the old one, on the version 1.1, 1.2, or 1.3. We thought that we should stabilize plugin APIs before the version 1.0.0 become public.

Second, we had to rethink the message flow around distributed operations. Droonga should support recursive distributions of messages, but the current message flow couldn't describe such complex combinations of messages. To introduce such flexibility to Droonga, we had to reconstruct plugin APIs around distributing and collection phases. But rewriting of those mechanism takes much more time and we couldn't complete it before today.

Then, we decided to postpone shipping of the version 1.0.0.

Instead, we've stabilized plugin APIs around InputAdapter and OutputAdapter ahead of other type plugins. Now you can study how to develop Droonga plugins, via steps to develop InputAdapter and/or OutAdapter type plugins.

## Conclusion

 * Droonga 0.9.9 has been released!
 * Now you can develop plugins which translate request and response messages between the Droonga Engine and the client (including the Protocol Adapter). See the [plugin development tutorial](/tutorial/plugin-development/).
 * Other type plugins will become developable in the next release.
 * Droonga project will release a new version every month!

Droonga project welcomes you to join us as a user and/or a developer! See [community][] to contact us!

  [community]: /community/
  [search]: /reference/commands/search/
  [table_remove]: /reference/commands/
